Good
morning. Okay, today the plan is
to go through the improvements to the
training code uh that I was on up late
last night discussing with uh a few of
our
users. We're going to see if we can get
like a really clean entry point style uh
interface to the main training code.
Then we're going to see if we can write
some decent docs for that. Put together
a good sample
project and then we'll see where that
puts us. Probably have to start on the
packaging, all that stuff. Uh next
couple of days is just going to be like
really trying to crank out the last
things for this uh for this release.
here, the thing that we want to do is
take all of these little
snippets and uh cleanly make entry
points for these
separately. That was the suggestion that
we
Now, this stuff I don't quite know what
we're going to do with, but I think for
now what we do is we just take this blob
of
here. And then this one here, this is
the training entry
simplified. And what else do we have in
here? There's all this importing.
code. I don't know if this should go
into this is not loading of configs.
We do know this is going to go into
evaluate.
export. Now, the main thing is just
going to be how we get this loading code
into a a decent spot.
We just get rid of all
this. I mean, that's still a fair chunk
of code,
right? So, this can
be let's see realistically. So, this
loads the
N and then we have a bunch of policy
loading code.
And then this local rank this just has
to be called
before where's this has to where does
this have to get
called? I think when you make the
policy, you have to do this,
right? Yeah, we can punt on that for
just a little
policy? It's a little bit at odds,
right? trying to provide a
um entry point
interface and at the same time trying to
provide uh a importable interface
The entry point has to not take arcs,
right?
I mean realistically I could just make
like a load everything
right? Can you make um can you make the
entry point function take optional
arguments? You probably can, right?
like you might be not be able to pass
them from
CLI, but you should be able to make them
take like starark bars or
whatever. Okay, let's assume that that's
possible.
And then this is like load
config. And then we do like
load
We're not going to keep all these little
functions,
I thought there's like a second
distributed
thing. We can leave it alone for now.
This loads the
policy. Oh, you need a back end though.
if you wanted to like just have a load
everything, right? So it's like args
equals load
config and then
like go
spenser forcing actions to
be yes. So that is a thing. I thought
that I'd fix
that. Um it shouldn't be the end binding
though. It should be the dtype of the
numpy array that you pass to it. Right.
you're doing continuous
right or
something. So by default the gymnasium
space is a float 64 and you should
double check if uh also numpy zeros
defaults to float
64 just
multidiscrete end bindings forcing
actions to
be well how's that even possible like
where are you seeing
it hang on let's just do this jer
Okay. No. Y second. Let
me freaking paranoid about every time
something itches like do I have a tip?
So, what's going on?
Um, in my GPU drive.py file, Mhm. when
I'm passing in my slice of actions,
it creates this like ghost error where
it's assuming I'm passing in well I'm
passing in I guess a float 32 somehow
and it's only accepting float 64s like
what do you mean it's only the only way
I was able to it it wouldn't even get to
the binding like endbinding.h each file
it would just fail immediately in the
attempt of calling it. What's the error
message?
Action tensor passes float 64 parenthesy
pass np float 32 buffer. Okay, so that's
supposed to do the
opposite. So that's supposed to prevent
you from passing float 64s by mistake.
So right now it's only forcing it as if
if I force the actions to be a float 64
then it goes through.
So I mean I have this on my screen here.
Incorrect because like it should just be
whatever the type I pass it in in the
first place. Well the reason we did this
is because like there's this really dumb
quirk where like uh so people are used
to torch tensors which default float 32
but if you do numpy it defaults to float
64 which will totally screw you in most
cases. So, we just disable float 64. Um,
so this is supposed to be doing the
opposite. This is supposed to be
disabling float
64. Is there a reason that it would be I
mean, look, it's a it's a check that the
action stride
is size of. Do you have two actions?
Yes. I wonder if that's why
because multidiscreet so it's two
actions. I wonder if that's why it does
it because it's checking the
stride and I'm pyra
stride. This probably gives me bites.
I couldn't even find where you're this
like error is being tossed.
Line 74.
If you just look for the error string,
it's in the end binding
The Why does yours look different than
mine? But wait, are you an M binding
right now? Mhm.
Yeah. So, is the file you're in right
now? What file are you in? Ocean and
binding.h.
Uh,
guess. Am I in the wrong file? I'm so
confused.
ghost because in my endbinding file,
although it claims that error is being
tossed, I don't if I type in command
float 64, it doesn't exist in my file.
Huh.
Well, I see what could be an error here.
So this could just be item
give that a
shot. Um, okay. Well, step one is this
is weird because I don't even see the
thing you're looking at in terms of my
files should be there. does not sync my
I'll sink my fork again. But I mean, I
can push this as well if you want this
item size change.
I'm in the middle of packing up the
clean puff pile,
though. One sec. Because like this is
just like really trippy to me because I
don't even understand where this is.
Wait, what? It just like magically
appeared,
weird. The version of I must have had a
different All right. Well, let's try
again. See what happens.
This may have been like I just had a a a
dev that was just like that didn't exist
right before I pulled it. I don't
know. Find out what happens
though. Okay. So, what was the fix you
did? You changed it to item size. I can
push it for
And then yeah, my plan is to attempt to
get the version of the clean puff roll
pretty well that we want to ship today
and to have entry points and docks and
all of it
done. However much coffee that takes.
negative. Still
angry. Did it actually
Man, it is crazy how bad like release
work just messes with me. It's like I
woke up feeling like good and ready to
like finish this stuff and as soon as I
like look at it, I'm just like
bored. is why it's it's like it's like
this is why it's so important that like
if I don't get a release done in like a
week or whatever, it's it's going to be
a month because like of how slow
everything gets. I'm just going to try
to like blaze through this today as much
as I possibly can and just like have
something damn
shippable cuz otherwise it's just like
it's just ridiculous.
your goal is to get all this kind of
early stuff done and then still run
experiments.
Yeah, I think that the main things I
have to finish, right? So, I have to
finish cleaning. I This is kind of part
documentation in a sense cuz like me
cleaning this up makes the docs really
easy. I think the docs are literally
going to take me like an hour once I
have the demo file cleaned up because
there's going to be nothing to document.
It's going to be so easy.
Um, so I want to do that. I want to have
the docs. I got to get the package built
right. And then we have to dial in the
final sweep defaults that we're going to
ship, which I've been running
experiments for in the background over
the last few days.
Um, we have to like go through the old
M. Honestly, I think I'm going to just
delete half of the so-called supported M
that aren't really supported because
nobody uses them and they just like add
bloat. Um, like all the old shitty ones
that you'd have to be insane to want to
use anyways will just delete. And uh
we'll make like Atari work, we'll make
Proctton work, we'll make like the
classic ones that people want to work,
right? And you know, maybe we'll ship
like an Atari baseline as well from a
sweep.
Um yeah, and then other than that, I
it's just like little bits of clean up
here and there, you know, like make sure
all the M's are on the new bindings,
make sure all the logs are good, make
sure all the M's have like baselines,
all that crap.
Any
luck? No. I'm going to use one of the
other things in
the I think it's just like a how I'm
passing it. I think I just need to give
it
thing. But at least at this point, I can
actually like work with it because
before
Well, I Yeah, you're not. This is stuff
that's going to confuse you though.
Like, well, maybe not. You've done
enough system dev. So I mean the issue
here right is that like you can't
introspect types in C right so the idea
was to the only thing you can do is you
can check the bite size. So if you pass
me something that's not four
bytes, I it should complain.
You see?
Well, I'm just saying at least I can
like work with it. Before it was like
saying an error existed on a code that
didn't exist in my file and must have
compiled it and then pulled or
something. Yeah, I must have compiled an
old version, pulled, changed it, and
then
even so apparently even if you run force
on setup.pay Pi does not over it doesn't
overwrite. You have to actually delete
the build folder. Yep.
I might have a work around for that. I
have to figure out I don't know if just
including the the extra files, the
source files would fix that. The thing
is like you could technically have an
arbitrary number ofh files. So like
yeah, but I mean I think we can at least
get your main one. And if you decide to
write extra files for no reason, that's
kind of your
problem.
Anything else I can do up here or can I
get back to doing dish? No, you can go
back to doing your thing. I I'll figure
this out from here. All right. See you,
Spencer. Who's yacking at me in
development? Oh, no.
there. All right, one second. Let me
check a couple messages.
Oh, perfect. Uh, I'm going to have to
take a freight delivery
soon. I think what we'll do is we'll
just
11. I will keep on this for a bit till I
have to take freight. Then I get my new
chair.
it. Are you in like a garage that looks
like a gym behind you? I'm in the puffer
training
facility. It is for training agents and
for training
myself. So, servers go on the racks in
the back. Uh we are in the process of
moving our servers here and also getting
some new ones. And then yes, we also
have some gym equipment for training of
me. It's a warehouse. This would be a
ridiculously large garage.
It's pretty nice because like I get so
much more exercise in having this
literally be in the same room because I
can just decide like, eh, all right,
I've done a bit of work. Let me go clear
my head for a second and just do this.
There you
go. Robotics PhD student in my second
year. I feel the urge to go the full
Unix
setup. I don't want to give up
Windows. Then use WSL if you have to.
I've gotten I got sick of it and I just
ditched Windows and I deal with, you
know, the occasional Linux
bugs.
Um, but if you don't, just use WSL if
you don't want to do
that.
Seamless. Well, it's a little different
if you're on a laptop
primarily. Linux on laptop, there's
always freaking issues. Heck, I put
Linux on my new Razer laptop and I've
barely used it cuz well, one, I have
this set up, but also it's got trackpad
issues, the drivers.
But honestly,
like if you want to keep both, what I
would suggest you do is you just get you
get an extra box. Well, I guess it kind
of depends on budget and stuff, but like
if your lab gets you a box or whatever,
you just have a separate box that just
has full Linux or even a server build of
Linux, doesn't matter. And then you just
like run your training runs there,
sshed. So like I have this box here.
This box has a 4090 which is like nice
for me testing stuff locally, but I
don't really train stuff on this, right?
Like other than like doing perf tests
and things. I do most of the training
runs sshed into any of our uh our server
boxes. Like we've
got it set, we've got this set up
here. These machines are actually going
to get moved to right behind me from
where they are right now. Um yeah and we
just do our dev like we just do our
experiments as stitched into these
Google Slides, Google like Google Slides
or Google
Docs. I haven't used Word in like I
don't think I've used Word since I was
like
14. Quicks quick. That's an amusing
name.
Welcome. All right. So, this actually
works
here. This train
correctly. Yeah, this
does. So, I mean, this isn't bad. We
like can clean this up a little bit and
then just have
like the load stuff split up a little
I know. I don't really miss
like having standalone Word apps or
what? Like it's kind of just bad.
Anyways, if you want like a non-web
local option though, I used Libre for a
little bit in undergrad. Was like fine
because I didn't have to write that
much.
Um, well, that's not totally true. I
kind of did do a bit of write, a fair
bit of writing in
undergrad, but it wasn't like technical
writing. So, like you didn't really need
to format [ __ ] He just needed to
write. Okay. So, this needs to be loaded
in here. So it should be args.
200 lines of
code used to scare me back then looks
scarier now. Look. Okay, this config
loading stuff. I hate having 200 lines
of config more than any of my users do.
I've been trying to cut this thing down
a
ton, but it's actually pretty damn
complicated what it has to do. It's not
just like it's not like a oneline load
thing. This thing actually gives you let
me see if it works right
now. Okay, look at that. So this thing
gives you this whole menu of args. This
thing is dynamically
populated based on the end that's
specified. So the default is breakout
here. So this has this frame skip param
because breakout has frame skip. All
right. Right? So you have your full help
menu. But I can
this. And now look at this. I have snake
ends. So dynamic help menu populated by
config
files. So I had to do some extra stuff
for that.
But it means that you if you need help,
if you don't know what the args are or
whatever, you immediately have access to
everything. Oh, hey, welcome YouTube
folks. Fair on
today. For anyone new here, this is
ultra high performance reinforcement
learning dev and research done live. Uh,
this is all open source and free at
puffer.ai. You can play some of the
games. You can watch like the neural
nets play some of the games in here as
well. And uh you can start on GitHub to
support and you can join the discord if
you want to get involved with open
source contribution. It's a great way to
get into
RL. And what we're doing these this
week, this is all like pre-release
packaging work because um we're leading
up to our next big milestone release. Uh
so there's like a lot of just little
fiddly bits of dev work around that. But
as soon as this is released, the plan is
that uh I'm going to be doing like a ton
of just hardcore algorithm dev and just
trying to really figure out how we push
RL to be well to be what it should have
been for the last 5
years. Okay. So, what we're going to do
here, the point is that we add entry
points. Can you do
like
train? I wonder if this like works.
slow. So this is how long it takes
Python to do anything. uh when it's
literally it's not even installing
anything because everything's already
pre-installed. I I mean I should just be
using
UV. I haven't had time to fully
integrate like I haven't really had time
to integrate UB yet.
It makes like some dumb opinionated
choices about how you should do dev. And
there is my
freight. I'm going to go get this chair
delivered. And uh then I will be back
here with more dev. You streaming all
day? Yes. as soon as I get um as soon as
I go get this chair
delivered where I woke up. And so I'm
streaming. I'm about to go and get What
time do you wake up? I wake up usually
between like between 7 and 8, but then
like I go run. I get a little bit of
exercise. I do other stuff like several
days of the week. So it takes me a while
to get here. I don't know. The hour the
work hours honestly aren't that crazy at
the moment. Like releases always are
just a drag. So I always work fewer
hours like around release. Anyways, let
me go get this chair and then uh I will
be back in a
Okay, we're back here.
So, let me at least fix the camera setup
for now. But uh I I'm like sitting way
too low down in this
thing. Do like this for
I uh I do like this chair, but I
neglected to
consider if it doesn't swivel. It's kind
of tough to put it in front of a
desk. Yeah, this keyboard's super high
That would be a keyboard on lap angle
for
now. It is very comfortable
though. I'm just down too low.
I'm trying to think what I want to do
for now to make this like reasonable.
terrible. Well,
whatever. We will um we'll try it like
this for now and then we'll see how this
goes.
I think realistically I'm just going to
get like um like a 4 in swivel base to
put under this thing and then I'll be
lap.
Nah, do it
either. Well, I'll just deal with it for
now. It's just it's like very very
clearly 4 in too low.
One thing I am going to do is bump this
up because super far from
monitor and I should probably do the mic
a little bit as well. Yeah, we'll do
that.
Okay. So, plan for now is get the uh the
entry points all set
up
and see how uh how the train file looks
after we do that.
I can tell this is going to be good,
though. It's kind of crazy how big of a
difference it made in uh in Florida when
I like replace the office chair with a
lounge
chair. It's just like immediately the
desire to just get up constantly and not
be at the screen. It just goes away.
runs. How do you do like
multi-word console
scripts? This doesn't work.
Then we'll see if uh I can get spaces to
work at some point.
Okay. So, this works with um without the
hyphen. So, what we're just going to do
is we're going to like let's just define
them all and then we shouldn't have to
keep waiting for this bloody thing to
reinstall every time.
Okay. So, this is like pretty much what
we'd want to expose, right?
And now when we edit the code, it'll
just edit the uh it'll update in place
and we won't have to keep
rebuilding. I think what this
technically does is it just generates
you
um it probably just generates like a dot
file or something somewhere.
Oh yeah, it is running printing because
I have experiment
here. So this should now run
eval. There we
go. Except it's
uh not doing anything which is a little
Okay. I do have to have the font super
big here though because I have a little
bit of a glare and I'm sitting uh way
too far away from the
monitor. I'll have to order something
for
that and probably get like a just
I need like a 4 inch thick lazy Susan
pretty much to just stick this chair on
top
point.
True.
Okay. So, rerender
right? Oh, something just got
unindented, didn't
it? Yeah, something got
Wow. Uh, am I just not seeing it
here? It's like
looping without stepping the
end. Okay. All
true
Okay. So, no grad
here. Sample
logits.
Reshape. And it just freaking skips the
rest of
this. How does it skip the rest? Like,
how's it skipping this?
stepped. Wait, why the heck is the
puffer fish like
top.
Oh, hang on. It's
[Music]
because I see
it. This goes here.
go. There. There we go. Now this works.
We can just call paparel
eval and this will load
whatever.
Okay. Do papel train.
load. Was it
load model
path? Okay. So, here's the these are not
good hypers or it's like not running
long enough. one of the
is load model
app
63. So now we actually can just load in
the model we just trained which Not a
great
model, but you know, it does
decent. Now, we just need
profile, export, and sweep to
work. And uh yeah, we should be
good. Profile, export, and sweep.
this, we get args as load
config. Then we take this
stuff. We put this here.
this now. Sweep is probably still going
to take Neptune, right? So
paparel item size did
work doesn't overwrite the build pile.
Yep. I'm trying to figure out why that
is, Spencer. But uh yeah, it's kind of
gross. Oh, wait. Even if you delete the
build
file doesn't overwrite the build file in
Ocean M. Okay, that's
gross. We're going to move Neptune
anyways.
What do we think of this
though? This sort of a
this, you can pass
bars. I can do
like I can do like args is none.
I do think I need to have a way to
separate the loading of the back end and
the policy which is a little
annoying. Be dropped like a rock.
MISK time is
71. Uh, which
MISK? Train MISK or EVAL
MISK? Uh, logging Spencer. It's probably
logging every tick or some weird
guess. Amazon
on
late
Damn that, man. That's quite the setup.
Well, I'm about uh the new chair is
about 4 in too low, so I'm like sitting
super down here. But
yeah, buffer CLI is not in 20. No, it's
literally being developed right now. And
literally all it is, it's the same as
just importing the fi importing the file
and running the function. It's just to
give you um the ability to run training
without having to clone the repo. That's
Well, this thing can be like some of
these are pretty easy to fix if I just
do these like one by
one like
[Music]
args args of end of name.
paparel evaluate.
So this is now
just I guess I need like the first
however many lines of experiment.
Okay. So the only thing that I need to
figure out now is how I do how I make it
so you can also pass this thing right
without making a total
mess and then we will be
If I don't mind repeating a little
logic, it's easy,
right? Um 2.0 has sweeps, but it doesn't
have our custom sweeps. It just has
integration with WandB's existing sweeps
method as well as with
carbs. the new protein algorithm and our
new sweep stuff is in dev. Yeah, I mean
our dev cycles are pretty long, right?
Like we only do two to three major
updates a year. Um it's all open source,
so you're free to like grab dev at any
time and like if you have problems, I
will help in Discord. But then this is
also something that we do for companies,
right? Is like we deliver like the
bleeding edge features from dev like
integrated for people specifically under
contracts.
So, we keep our dev cycles long and if
you want the stuff that's like leading
edge early in a corporate setting and
pay us for that. Um, otherwise, you
know, you're more than welcome to like
just jump on the Discord and say like,
"Hey, I'm trying to build like an end
for I'm trying to do something for my
project. How do I like pull the latest
stuff?" And we'll help you.
Actually, this kind of helps. I can sit
up like this. This chair is actually big
enough that I can sit cross-legged on
it.
in
Discord. Yeah. I mean, we're so far
ahead in dev right now. Like, it's
literally our reinforcement learning is
a different field with puffer lab uh
puffer dev versus 20. It's straight up a
different field.
slowly piecing it together. It's going
to be very easy. It's just like there
are a few last annoyances that are like
making stuff confusing, but it's going
to be very easy.
At least that is my
goal is that this will be See?
So here's the uh the
idea is that like we'll just do like
args equals args or load
config. Super maven must know my coding
style
because this is not the common way you
would do this.
good. Do the same
for Well, for sweeps, you don't need to
be able to
do you don't need to be able to pass a
vean or a policy for sweeps.
Do Yeah.
Do you need to be able to pass policy to
sweeps?
right? Which is not
like we're going to just leave the
stupid thing as is for now.
fix the rest of this and not stress over
the small
autotune. Have not used this in forever.
So, we'll like
here. We can probably still clean
uh some things up here.
Now you can call this
yourself. You can call this yourself
just
fine. This still feels like a deep call
graph, right?
Like, is it just me or does this still
feel like a super deep call
graph? I think the main thing I don't
like
here, I don't like that train calls
experiment like this. Experiment feels
redundant.
I think what this should be
experiment we put this
here. All
right. So this code is now just here.
And then for
sweeps, train of
args, back
end, and
policy. And
honestly, do we
need
backends? No. Do we need policy?
No. So we can literally just
Now this is pretty flat, right? So
obviously sweep is going to call
train. But then train is this like
relatively short piece of code that just
interacts with this clean puffl and
clean puffer is clean puffl. So like in
terms of the depth of
things, this is two layers
deep pretty much right. This makes clean
puffer. Clean puffer does
training. I think we're happy enough
with that.
And then this make policy function
literally gets called
once. So this can just go
here and this
takes
vecd driver
bad. Now we get rid of this annoy that
annoying little make
function. And the only last little
annoying function frankly is this down
sample
linear which like we'll get something
for
that. And now we are pretty
flat. Now we still want to do something
with init.
Where does this get inited? We only call
this here,
right? Yeah. So this whole init function
is just because we have logging done in
clean
puffl. Um we could equally well do this
inside of experiment,
right? Or inside of our new train
rather. Let me just
see see what happens.
this and then
here we make
our trainer.
Config of
tag. This takes args of tag.
Now run
for this.
Yeah, we don't need this tag in here, do
logs. Found this game replica cube. Ever
heard of it? Nope.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, I saw this on uh I saw
this on X,
actually. Oh, that's funny. This guy's
actually gotten himself
uh quite a bunch
of of uh sales, it looks like. Good for
him.
I play a few games. I try not to too
much though because I try to just get my
work hours up. But especially around
releases, it's hard. A lot of the
release work is just super
boring. And it's not even like boring
work that I can like sandbag on either,
right? Like the stuff I'm doing here,
like making it a little simpler or not
as simple is like a huge difference for
usability. It's just freaking
boring. I want to be back to algorithm
dev or like experiments or like
engineering something, right?
Let me see how bad this is going to look
if I do it this
way. I think it's like this. And this
gets copied one more time
here.
Turn model
path
shutil.copy model
path to
opinions on Absolute
Zero. That's the uh the new evolutionary
thing,
right? Like you assume I've read it. I
haven't. Looks like cool stuff, but like
LLM land is LLM land.
I've been stuck doing this release and
that's actually not even necessarily on
the list like the list of papers that I
really want to dig
into. It's going to be like you know
some searchbased stuff from Uzero. It's
going to be like some world model stuff,
some off policy stuff and like whatever
else Deep Mind is like maybe some
algorithm stuff.
Wait,
what? No, it's
right. So now we
have Yeah, this doesn't get used
anywhere else.
These can get pasted.
This is a net
lost and offline. This is super annoying
to sync. So, we're just going to do
All right. So, what is uh what did I
break
Okay. So, if we can get this to be like
a
reasonable size piece of
code, we will have really cut down on
the uh the function bloat here.
um a
log
class? It probably does, doesn't it?
Yeah, it's Python.
Python. You do it that way. Fine. Let me
try it.
breakout also just dropped in
speed. All right, I will
test. That's weird. Something screwed up
then. Is it on debug mode?
It's possible it's compiling a debug
build. I don't freaking know, man. I'll
fix everything, though.
and we'll fix like this
weird
Okay. So now we can do like this.
Get rid of this if
statement. And that's now something
that's like kind of
to and then you just do like this right
run ID is logger run I do.
Okay, so we load the config, we load the
end, we load the policy, we have a
logger, make some args, we instantiate,
make a puffer, whatever.
train do this. We do this. We do this.
Cool. That seems a lot simpler,
right? And I can even do this. So I can
give you
Yeah, this is it's okay. I think it's
okay. Have like
this. Oh yeah. 1086 lines through a
little
bit. I think we can get rid of some of
it maybe.
Oh, this has this calls a
net net wand to be doesn't
it? Missed
right. Multiple values for run ID.
Really?
I guess cuz you can pass a run
ID. The thing
Okay, so we're back to this
training. This is
nice. We'll have to fix a few like
little things.
Um, I'm
mostly Let me see if like layoutwise I'm
happy with this or not. I don't think
I'm fully happy with this quite yet.
It's getting there though. It's
definitely getting there.
fine. This is like generally kind of
okay. And there's like sweeps.
I think it's mostly like the
um the eval load stuff.
actually you could make the logger
thing. I
guess you could make the logger thing
here.
Okay, this will look like something like
this, I believe.
Okay. So we have use artifact.
This is resume
must load
ID and
resume. We'll like fix what the resume
is as
well. Okay. So we do this. So now we
have data
return the whole freaking path, don't
you?
this. Okay. So, and now we do
[Music]
path. This is path.
Okay. So, assuming I get all of this to
work as written here, right? Assuming I
get all this to like to work as it's
written here and I just debug all the
dumb little things. I think this is
pretty
decent. I mean, compared to what I had
before, we have entry points. It's
importable. It's callable as a script.
Uh you no longer have to read all the
config like loading crap if you don't
want to because like you know you start
reading
here and like the first function
after after these helpers right the
first real thing here you get is train.
train is this 50
lines
806 45. Okay, so it's like not even 40
lines of
code. Loads config, loads M, loads
policy. It calls functions, but they're
pretty
flat. Get your logger thing, which is
just like super dummy little easy class.
It's in the same file. You can really
easily just jump there and see what
you're looking at. You make the train
config make puffer which
is now stateful and kind of has to be
because
Python I think this is
fine. You do eval
train. You have your
logger. You're
set. It's pretty
decent. I think pretty decent overall.
And let's just see how much crap is
duplicated. I mean, obviously this
little load stuff is going to be
semi-duplicated,
loop. Got profile, which probably needs
to be updated, but whatever. We don't
care that much about this one. We got
export, we got
autotune, I don't even know if you need
to be able to do all these things from
the main script.
Frankly, keep them in there for now. And
then you have your loads. Load m load
policy, load checkpoint, load
Yeah. So, I think we just make
everything
work and uh we test stuff and we should
be we should be good with this.
[Music]
this.
Fine. We'll do one B
after I get this train working. Okay,
train actually runs. Very good.
Then we're going to want eval. So we're
going to want to be able to load this
thing.
Okay. It's just not in there,
right? No, it's not in there. That's a
one v one.
It's a little bit annoying that it just
kind of doesn't
download a
thing. Is this it? No, this isn't it
either,
anything. Attempting to log a
type. Read only mode.
have hell.
Oh, wait. Download destination as
artifact. File
path
model
see I did this before. I must have had
some rename thing on this.
Yeah. So, here's this is what it was
for, right? Is that you copy
this and you name it the run
like Yeah. Uh so that way it actually
like uploads it under a reasonable
Well, I have to rerun training now,
don't
I? Fine.
folks. Goal at the moment
is we just have a nice clean set of
entry points for puffer lab. uh you
should be able to like train eval do all
your stuff from command line if you just
want to like run puffer on one of your
M's or on one of our M's and then you
will also be able to like import and use
these if you want a little bit of uh
slightly more granular control and then
you can of course just edit this file if
you are actually a researcher and want
full control over
Everything self run ID. This should be
self
We can make wannabe work real quick as
well,
valid for
[Music]
resume.
ID. Okay. Okay. And there now we're
tracked with W Okay.
Looks pretty
good. Do have the ability to save and
load Neptune, save and load
womb. A few other things we need to be
able to do here, but that is uh a very
solid
start. I don't think where we go from
here. I guess I just want to like read
through line by
line just like maybe from here
down. Here's a restroom real quick. Go
walk
around. I'll be back in a couple
minutes. And I need to get the damn lazy
Susan for this thing cuz it's impossible
to get into this chair.
code. Going to play with this interpret
at some point. Other than
that, easy dumb noop class.
redundant is
fine. One B
Fine. Go
change. Don't save all the code. It's
huge. Config
log and file. Log
artifact.
Finish. Then
download artifactor data der model file
Training our triple
load followed by logger.
I let you pass your own logger in if you
want.
Train config
good have clean
paparel okay all logs
You append to
logs do 100
iterations which is going to be um this
is going to be dependent on our final
experiment. What we do with this piece,
we take mean and
log. Do log
again. Append a log like that. The order
is different for
this. We'll do it this
way.
Yeah, that's good.
An
eval does have this slightly
janky override, but no big
deal. Reset the end. Now, the one thing
I don't like is that load
policy load policy is the thing that
sets train of use
RNN, which I I don't like that at all.
If anything, I think that I'd like to do
it on load
config, right?
anywhere until I figure out a better way
of doing that at
least better than I had before.
And so now an
eval get the
policy which now this can
go. This still kind of just goes here,
doesn't
it? Do
this. Then this is our normal state
code. Our save
frames. Few small to-dos.
code. Target key told time's okay. We
set up and do our sweep.
profile. We haven't messed with this. We
don't care about this. We don't care
about this. Load end. Okay. Let's see
how redundant stuff gets
this. It's not bad
though. We get policy
this. Do like this,
right? Way easier.
train. I think we can do this in
train, right?
checkpoint which is a little weird
because I think we also have
load we also have try load checkpoint.
So, if I only call this here, I think I
should just
put I think I just put the code in like
We don't have a way to
resume like an existing experiment. I
slightly bigger map. Working on port
should be sending me more soon.
Hopefully one is giant.
Awesome. I'm working on making the
release done.
I
mean, I kind of should have a
resume. I kind of should have a resume,
right?
So I guess the way to do this is I just
I can actually make this easier though,
right? So we just go
No, this is just args. Hang on. The path
is just the load
dot. Yeah, we can do something like
this,
policy. That's still awkward as hell,
isn't it?
realistically like realistically this
gets called once. So like
Cool.
So now I think we have
sense? Hang on. Does it make more sense
to have this clean puffer
The thing is like this load function
also gives
you it's both like getting the class and
then potentially loading weights for
you.
It's irritating because like you You
don't want to have to make you don't
want to make one of these at evil time,
right? I think it's better to just
like Damn, I mean, it's like awkward is
the thing. It's just It's awkward that
you
It's like it's irritating because you
have like the downloading, you have
local stuff, you got like a lot of
different things to consider here. I
want to make it not confusing.
I think we uh I think I'm going to go
nuts if I keep looking at this. I think
I'm just going to do it this way for
now. Okay. So, if I just say we're going
to do it this
way, write a reasonable code size again.
The load is not
awful. Hang on. This still doesn't load.
It still didn't do it.
Oh, no. I
did. Yeah, I did.
Okay. So, this is like somewhat
janky. Not that bad,
though. I'm sick of looking at it. So,
let's just get this thing working
now. Start running some tests.
expected all temperatures on this. Get
out of here.
Hey
Maxwell, passionate about electronics
and artificial intelligence is to build
a career that combines the two buildings
into one
profession. Kindly guide me on what I
should
focus. Well, that's going to depend very
well uh you know how far along you are.
What book should I read? How to create
an effective road
map professional
expert would mean a lot.
AI. I mean, hardware and AI generally is
robotic
stuff.
Um, but I don't know if you mean like
that's more
I mean, there's all sorts of stuff in
that, man. Like, there's AI used being
used for chip design right now, right?
That's like right up your alley. That
would be right up your alley there. Um,
that's probably going to keep increasing
and there's going to be more of that in
the future.
Um, you kindly you kind of just have to
learn both things and then look for
opportunities, right? like I'm not like
I don't do electronics so I'm not going
to be able to tell you what the best
opportunities are for overlap there.
Right? It's like you kind of you have to
kind of be one of the only people that's
doing two things in order
to be able to see the opportunities
though those are pretty that's like
probably a more common overlap um than
many other things.
Yeah, I'd have to know like you like you
could be anywhere from high school to
like grad school to like you know midway
through career and wanting to do
something new. So like the answer is
kind of going to depend a heck of a lot
on that. Generally though like if you
have some base background uh of course
work some like pretty minimal base
background um on the research side of
what I do like you start building
projects and reading papers and just
like the way that you learn to do
research is to do research. Uh that's
true of many
things. Like I don't have a reading list
for you because I've literally never
read an AI textbook.
It's just not like a particularly
effective way to learn
stuff. I mean what I did is I read a
bunch of papers. I implemented a bunch
of projects. I started doing my own
research that like you know you take an
existing thing. Oh, what if I did it
like this other way instead? And then
from there, you know, as I got better, I
started instead of doing that, it's like
instead of what if this but that, it's
like what if entirely new thing and then
try it, build it, see if it like helps.
And you just gain more and more
independence and autonomy and uh in your
work in the process of doing
that. So yeah, give me some more
details. I'll give you some better
advice.
Yeah. So, this ended up being on CPU for
some dumb reason.
Thank you for answering me. I mean, I
didn't give you a great answer. Like, I
kind of would need to like I'm going to
give you very different advice if you
tell me like you're in high school
versus like you have some background in
some other thing and you're trying to
like pivot, right? Like I get people
that ask me for things that are very
very different points in life and like
have very different base levels of
experience.
interest in learning RL but have no
background in AI. Prefer to avoid heavy
theory. Generally in AI like it's better
to have some math than no math. Um at
least you got to understand what a
partial derivative is and you got to be
comfortable working with matrices and
tensors. Um my own approach to AI is
like actually very like I do very little
math in what I do. I mean lately I've
had to do a bit more of it and I don't
like it just takes me longer because I
haven't focused on that. But um I still
get it done.
if you want um if like you kind of have
to pick, right? Like you have to either
go engineering heavy or math heavy um if
you're not just one of the people who
can do both.
Um I'm more engineering heavy and that
just means like do stuff, right? The
most effective way to get started is to
get started. Like pick a thing that you
can build and build it,
right? And like learn what you need to
do along the way to do that. Don't pick
like when you're new, you don't want to
pick some like ridiculously ambitious
thing that you're not going to be able
to actually
complete.
Um, here I actually did like a a very
dumb electronics AI thing when I was I
don't know
16.
Uh, is
it the site still work?
Yeah. All right. Here I did this in like
I don't know a few
days. I just
like I wrote up some like if you call
this is a schematic. It's a schematic
and like I wired some basic flex sensors
to an Arduino and then ran a K nearest
neighbor on this thing and then that you
get like very basic crappy gesture
recognition in a glove. Like you can do
stuff like that. You can do
substantially more sophisticated stuff,
right?
works. So, 30 second, like 30 seconds to
train a model, pull the model down from
uh where I saved it on Neptune and Eval
is pretty nice. It's like a good work
loop.
I guess we get sweeps. We make sure
sweeps
works. What about all this other
autotune
stuff? I really don't care about it
right now. To be honest, I kind of want
to just like be done with working on
this for right
now. Why don't we just like commit what
I
have and uh find something else to do
here.
you write the main functionality in C++
and then use PIBind. No. So our M's are
written in C and then they're bound with
the Python C API.
Um I think Puffer is like 30 probably 30
some odd thousand lines of C now for all
the ends we have like 20 M ends and then
uh the actual core of Puffer is just a
few thousand lines of Python with
PyTorch mind you heavily optimized but
it's we're just using PyTorch for
training and
um now mind you there are a few things
in the middle that like make everything
fast. So for instance, we're not doing a
ton of redundant data copies. We're
processing like a few gigabytes of data
per second. Um so redundant copies are
really bad. So like everything gets
simulated into static shared memory
which is nice.
Um we've cut out like a lot of the
overhead that's usually there in RL and
then we just have like a really well
optimized trainer.
We technically could write a
um like a C++ pietorch trainer, but I
don't think that there's really much
point in it cuz
like there's a lot of freaking overhead
in the uh the
C++ torch. API.
Anyways, a lot of like binding overhead
and
crap. If it had like a nice C API or a
nice like minimal C++ API that wasn't so
bloated, then I would be tempted to do
it. But I don't even think you get much
out of doing that at this
point. How do we do CUDA fall
back? Can we do Cuda fall back real
quick? Oh, we did do Cuda fall back,
right?
It's usebin and puffernet. You can't use
pt. How do you generate the bin? So, let
me show
you. So, puffernet is just for the demos
on the website, right? It's just so that
we can load stuff into pure C and we can
run networks on on the site. So, we have
a little script which I have not updated
for a while, but we're going to make it
work for
release. And this is it. We just go
through the parameters and concatenate
them and save them to a file. That's
it. And then we have, you know, we have
a test. So when we update the operations
in puffer net we have a test such that
when we make a net in puffer uh with
puffer net it's identical to the way
that the network behaves in torch that's
all
Okay, so Spencer said that this got like
way
slower. Okay, doesn't import now. Which
branches branches didn't? since I was on
dev and I clerked
for.bin. We might manually rename them.
I honestly don't remember. But it's just
um well, I'm about to push this thing
which has like the code in here. Let me
let me just find it for
you. Okay, it's just
this. Let me link this to you.
This is all it
is. And then it gets loaded from the uh
the
C. I mean again we don't use this for
like our actual like the the demos that
we run locally. We run those like
loading in those nets. We often just run
them through Python. It's that when we
it's mostly for when we compile the
demos to web that we run everything pure
C. You can compile it locally as well. I
yeah. Uh yeah. So this didn't install
anything which is kind of weird.
I think Ray has
it. That
folks. We are
currently getting the uh entry points
for puffer liib to work nice and
cleanly. So from CLI you'll just be able
to do like puffer train or puffer eval
whatever in addition to using the
library normally like you have an option
to run training just from the pit
package. No export mode available on my
version. Yeah cuz it was a separate
script. We had like a saveen flat.py or
whatever. It's like five lines of code.
It's literally just iterate over weights
and then concatenate them all together.
That's all it is.
And like you know if you train a model
and you run it in Python and the model
plays the game and then you load it into
C and the model doesn't play the game,
it's probably loaded wrong, right?
Okay. So, this thing is still not making
bindings, which is weird.
Um, we'll see if this does
it. In the meantime, I want to go look
at how Ray does
it. Okay. So, there's ray
train
thing. Oh, is this not it? I thought
they had like a CLI
thing. I just want to see their entry
points, man.
They have entry points in
here.
Nope. Okay. So, what's up with Muan?
It's just
good. So, you should use it.
It's our
default. Do they not have a
setup.py?
Wait, they have a ton of dot
like that would be weird. I didn't think
there was a GPU requirement on it, but
if Bet says there is, then there might
be. It's probably because of Heavy Ball
like compiling everything super weird.
I've been meaning to mess with that.
distributions can specify console
scripts entry
point. Create a command line wrapper for
each entry point.
there like a dot entry points or like
something or how does it
points we can just
like I bet this will expose
this
exit. Okay. So, it
makes it just makes like a weird steel
eye thing.
guess. Oh, and it just puts it in bin as
well. So, like this probably has to
Uh, it probably has to have a dash, not
spaces.
Annoying. Unless I make Yeah, I'd have
to make like a
custom a custom bind thing.
which defeats the point of like breaking
all these things up, right?
do you really should be able to do like
more than this. I would think it's just
the the entry points API itself is kind
of limited.
Wait. The main may contain the name may
contain any characters but it cannot
start or end with any whites space
character.
So wait then this can have white space
in the
And
okay, let's try
this. If I do
Can I get it to be like puffer train,
puffer eval, puffer sweep? That'd be
nice.
solve Sudoku. It just hasn't solved a
Sudoku with less than
37 and it starts taking like 3 hours per
solve.
What? Wait, 37
numbers. Isn't it 9 by 9? So it's 81.
It's
80. I'm pretty sure we could make that
much
better. I actually I don't know how hard
that of a sudoku that is. Like 37
numbers.
I've like not really done uh many
graph. Did we say this was user bin? The
user bin local or something.
Name does not seem to
be good here.
What I've seen is all log
scale is simply harder. Need to make it
easier with backtracking or have another
bug in my if it's your PO implementation
then I guarantee you you have lots of
bugs simply because these like it's not
easy to do that
correctly. Anyone know how to do command
groups in
um an easy way to do is there like an
easy way that doesn't require me to use
like external
libraries hard parse or click
be You'd have to add something to the
bottom of it, right?
Oh, wait.
My this a
Hang
on. This make any sense.
points. What's the difference? console
script in
Register entry points under arbitrary
group name.
point. These are not automatically
turned into
scripts but can be
discovered. Okay. Okay, so this doesn't
actually create any
scripts. I
see. So I think then the easiest thing
would be is if I really want this
um I need to
do I need to do like a a very short
which if statement
guess. How
long? I guess this isn't terrible if I
just do it this
whatever. I guess it'll get from like
cisarchv
this. Let's see if this gives us um the
behavior we want.
it and not import. Okay. So now we this
this actually this entry point
works.
Um the entry point actually does work
but we have weird compile shenanigans
now.
Now uh I only see a bunch of Syon.
I don't
see my other extensions getting
built. You know what I did actually try
to do?
So, this actually should give me
something right here, right?
Yeah, there's
C the
Ocean breakout binding seat. Yeah, this
is the correct
sources. Seems like correct binding as
well.
screwy. Doesn't give me like even the
copy messages anymore.
of like building the
thing. Build
dummy. Well, no. supposed to
do. It is supposed to do this
right. Build C.
It does. It does make the binding, but
now it doesn't copy
really. Yeah. Did you figure anything
out for
copying cuz the freaking setup tool
sucks. But
manually. That's
bizarre. Very much bizarre.
But is there a
manifest? I have to like
either.
Okay. Um, let me copy that file for now.
I bet if I go
like this probably doesn't work,
right?
Yeah, that's fine. We just have to fix
um global path.
That uh that seems like that ought to
have worked, right?
Oh, backtracking seemingly.
What did you
allowing not to change a square after it
number it's numbered
one. Still not allowed to edit the
starting hint. Oh yeah, that makes
sense.
You're going to probably have to give it
like a time budget or something because
like eventually it'll solve stuff.
Probably just take
forever. I think we're on to figuring
out um I mean there are obviously some
more things to do, but I think we can
start sort of trying to figure out the
packaging of this.
do. I mean, it's a little bit annoying
that we had to do this thing,
be a lot less confusing cuz like even if
you like look at this from here you just
go to train and boom you're immediately
at the fact I have two train functions
one in puffer and one outside is a
little
sketch for now this is this is
substantially
better. All right, I'm going to go walk
around, do a couple quick things, and
then we will start on uh packaging. Be
right back.
issue, which we should probably just fix
locally First
Do we have to like list out all the
things to
include? Is that the
thing? We didn't have to do this
before. Something changed.
something. I could get every C file in
the directory, I
guess. I don't think that's the issue,
though, right? Because it is building.
It's just not copying.
manifest? Find name spaces. Find
packages.
build is a temporary location. Yeah. Did
you see the difference? Do you post a
thing? But wait, what
is what's this graph then? because I
thought this was like um like number of
positions that are
set. You should also probably run this
thing with a random policy for
comparison. Numbers less
81 y ais is time.
What?
Okay. Typically one makes the x axis
time.
Okay. Missing package
data manifest. All right. So, yeah, it's
one of
directory. I didn't sleep just here.
Well, you should probably do
that. I have done that before. It's not
fun.
I think the worst I've ever done
was I was at like this summer
thing. This Where's the the damn thing?
Do I have it on here? Yeah, this
freaking thing is the worst I've ever
done. So, this was
like I think I did this when I was 16.
So, I was taking a Stamford course like
over the summer uh with like a bunch of
undergrads or whatever and I think like
a quarter of the class finished this
project to give you an idea. Um I had
the most compact design there and I
started off like finishing this thing
that like the final like work session to
finish this thing. I was already
starting off super sleep deprived and
then I was up doing this for I think
like 65 out of 70 hours or something
ridiculous.
just in the
ridiculous. It's kind of fun to remember
that like I did a couple ridiculous
things, but like I do not want to do
that [ __ ] anymore.
for 15 hours in like
five. Yeah, you should probably do that.
You should also probably like get up and
walk around once in a while. You can
just drop dead from blood clots. Like
that is a thing that happens to
people. 81 to 52. Very
nice. You should probably like play the
policy and like watch it to see what
it's doing some
81 minus
51. I have no metric for how hard those
are. We will see the policies when you
are in a state to like you know actually
clean up an like put source code
together and then maybe we can throw
muan at it and I can throw uh we can see
how fast things can get solved.
NPR. Believe the Sudoku problem like
Sudoku is like the uh like second course
in CS
uh one of the assignments for Stanford.
It's like second CS course.
one it's 9
by9 right I don't know what selfmemory
is I don't have a selfmemory so I'm
assuming like you're backtracking or I
don't
cells Yeah. Okay. You're doing something
wrong. Yeah, you're doing something
wrong. It's okay
though. If you just like get the end
nicely into the puffer format, like we
can throw our like we can throw the
power tools at it, right? And then
you'll have some fun with that.
jeez. Yeah, if that's what this the
train code looks like, you will see uh
you'll see quite a difference when uh
You throw it at
puffer like
work? No, you're just you're writing
like really
unoptimized like you're probably just
writing ludicrously unoptimized code.
Um, like realistically we can get your
Sudoku thing training at
like
probably 200,000 steps per second on a
CPU with Puffer, including an LSTM.
Okay. So, this actually does it.
It just needs to have all these
extension paths.
big
map.
Holy, that's
cool. That's very
cool. And drive all over
there. Very nice.
You're having more fun than I am.
Packaging is crap.
Downloading. Did it
actually Oh, download
Not a gzip. Not a
bzzip. Invalid
header. Well, I think we probably just
need to do a clean setup of all this
stuff at some point here, right?
I guess we are kind of ready to do the
release testing in a sense
because like anything else we should
change wouldn't really mess with it very
much.
My goal is to make enough project
progress on this that I do not have to
do this on Saturday because I think if I
spend all day doing release [ __ ] on
Saturday, I'm going to go
So we still have
this tiny thing at the bottom but other
than that we've
got that we've got load config load
policy load end we've got all the
individual
functions this is the train function
now and you can do you can do
this you can do puffer
reasonable. I figured I'd work on a big
map because I can't diagnose why train
speed dropped. Um, hang on.
It should be
getting Well, I'll have to figure that
out for you. Something's weird
there. Better yet.
Oh, they have just zips
now. They moved.
Um, wait, no, the web assembly is char
zip.
Okay, dang it.
I like new puffer train. It's smooth.
Thank you. I'm working on it, man. I'm
going to have to take a break on
Saturday and like do something else. I
don't know if I start algorithm like
algorithm research or if I like come
help you on M's or something, but like
release work is just freaking so boring.
And I just uh I do not work well when
I'm bored like at
that like blew up a surprising amount
for a random retweet.
here. Okay, so we do have a real error
message
platform. The hell's the URL on this
thing?
5.5 download 5.5
RAI 5.5 Web
Assembly.zip. Oh, and then it's probably
this Bar
lights plus
found. Where the hell is
it? 17.
[Music]
You should probably render it to make
sure it's doing what you expect.
good. It's kind of surprising if you're
able to get that to work on like some
random trainer.
Well, we have our first visitors.
guys. I uh I put a bird feeder out and
we have
two bright yellow orals.
three of
them. That was very nice.
This thing has been up for a day and a
half, and these are the first ones that
have uh come to get
it. I'm going to be momentarily
distracted because I uh I actually don't
ever think I've seen one of
those.
You think for bigger maps I'll need to
set up a star to set mini goals.
idea. I think if we get the sim right,
we can probably actually get like a
pretty darn cool like efficient routing
to goal result, right?
where like instead of just completion
rate, we can actually get a metric
that's like, you know,
um time to goal or something and we can
actually get something that continues to
improve.
If you actually have like superhuman uh
superhuman solve with RL, that's pretty
cool.
Like that will be a pretty darn cool
environment.
Okay, so our lights here is
apparently not the URL we were looking
At what point does it become easier when
you have uh fewer hints?
Never. If it's zero hints, I can just
fill in whatever. No, I can just fill in
any valid
installs undefined symbol blah blah blah
blah blah. Lovely.
yourself.
Really? You're telling me it's easier to
like fill in the last whatever than like
it is to just come up with any random
board.
No
way. Can I not just do
like there's got to be like some basic
ass pattern?
Wait. Three.
[Music]
Like with zero hints, if I get one board
right, I can just keep reusing it
everywhere.
Well, I mean it can totally if you like
train it on zero hints and like it
randomly does stuff when it eventually
finds the solution, it will it will
hardcode it into the waves.
How the heck can it possibly be that
difficult? I don't know. I never did
freaking sudoku.
The goal was to get
orioles, cardinals, and uh
bluebirds. So far, we have just seen the
orals here.
Wait, wait, wait. It actually put a
puffer fish. Look at
this puffer.
pepper_c. Oh, it's not designed to
build. Oh, it doesn't build
Well, how the heck do you generate the
damn things
then? Cuz otherwise it would be like a
exponential like 81 deep search. Like
there have got to be a lot of valid
boards for you to even be able to
generate the things,
right? Like you just start filling in
numbers. Isn't the algorithm like to
generate the things you just start
filling in numbers and then like
backtrack until you get a valid solve
and then like delete some of the
numbers?
Are you double checking that this thing
is actually doing what you think it is?
I mean, if it actually works, then
that'll be a pretty darn cool end. I
will
say well I just know how what a pain RL
is to get working when you don't have
you don't have puffer tools.
We still don't have this package. This
is
really. I guess we should be able to
tell just from
um what gets copied, huh?
I'm telling you, just get it set up for
puffer and like whatever you're getting
will make it way better.
like our implementation kind of just set
soda on everything out of the
good. You hope it would be with the
amount of work I freaking put into it.
Okay, now it's actually copying the
files.
Oops.
See if this builds.
This thing still doesn't freaking exist.
Like, you kidding me?
has right the wheel file should actually
have the right stuff in
see. And how did we get the uh the
underscore
C
build? So it's the name of the torch
extension,
right? Torch sources.
torch and build should run both, right?
So we do like
something cuz it's not installing it
here, right? It's like
Okay. So, you have you can't do editable
of a
zip. So, uh I guess I just have to
find where this gets installed.
doesn't seem to
where Oh, that's info.
sources need to be included in
manifest. Okay, let's check that.
That's everything, right?
They're all included.
from popper
li_c See?
So obnoxious that this like these chats
to just break.
Oh, I mean we have
um do I think it's linking against the
law wrong lib
C
Nope. Okay, so now we're back to the
same
error. So this thing was completely
freaking wrong.
thing? Undefined
symbol jit parse schema.
11. What exactly does Muan change? It's
a different
optimizer. It's not just Muan anymore.
We have more stuff in there. It's like
upper implementation is just better at
this point, you know?
What's different about it that is better
than Adam? Fancy math.
If you really want, I have a chat with a
bunch of very fancy optimizer folks who
will explain loads upon loads of second
order approximations
uh to
You would I understand it? Probably
not. You would understand. You could
probably understand the highle idea of
it
though approximate. It's a second order
approximation. You're approximating the
curvature of um the loss landscape with
some math that I haven't frankly even
bothered to check the details of cuz
like there are a whole bunch of these
that technically try to do this.
I don't know why their approximation is
better or what it does
specifically. There is a paper though
you can like check the uh there's an
archive paper or
whatever. God damn it.
It actually was the [ __ ] build
isolation. [ __ ] Python devs.
God, such [ __ ] dog
[ __ ] God damn
it. I
hate these [ __ ] Python engineers that
just come up with dumb [ __ ] best
practices. Best practice. Let's do the
whole [ __ ] build in a like in an
isolated setup where we reinstall Torch
under the hood without telling you and
install the wrong version cuz this is
going to make you very
happy.
hell. I was thinking about it.
I do try to keep this more professional
though than my
streams. A guido you in
particular. God damn it.
I'm going to go figure out how the hell
we make sure this doesn't happen in
practice.
Um, let me use a restroom. Let me go
walk around a bit and lift some weights
and [ __ ] and then we'll finish this.
That is so
stupid. Who the hell thought this was a
good idea, right? Like, we're going to
ignore the fact that you have gigabytes
of packages installed systemwide and
that the Python installer sucks. We're
going to reinstall everything from
scratch in like a container that we're
not going to tell you about. We're going
to get the versions wrong cuz [ __ ] you.
And then you're going to debug it
blind. Oh, and we're not even going to
tell you this option exists. It's just
in some random pep. So, like, have
fun. I swear the devs of like the
tooling for this language are just
[ __ ]
It's like, and also did you notice like
it's been like virtualization by default
now. It's like you need a VM by default
to do anything. If you need a VM by
default to do anything, even in a Docker
container, your language is ass.
Classic. We build Puffer Lib around
here.
ultra high
performance reinforcement learning
toolkit and we're almost ready to ship
our next update.
We just figured out why the package
wasn't
building. Now I have to figure out what
do we do about it. Nice to meet you as
well.
technically this is just sucky because
like the requirement is that the torch
version used for build is the same as
the torch version that you have on your
system, right?
Got to love this chat. This chat's
breaking after three
messages. No, I mean, all the LLMs are
bad. Like, they're all bad.
They're going to just keep like
leaprogging each other every couple
months though for the foreseeable
future. So like you can either subscribe
to everything and then like hop around
them constantly or you can just pick one
and then keep using it unless the
company massively screws up. And Grock
is already included with Twitter
anyways.
So, it's uh convenient enough and the
generation is fast and like frankly all
the platforms have great problems with
like cats randomly dropping
I mean, all the language models are
pretty dumb, frankly.
You can like gaslight yourself into
thinking that they're good, but they're
really
Okay, so like the thing is this thing
here just generated me like paragraphs
and paragraphs and this is all
[ __ ] This is completely wrong.
here. What type of error was it? Import
error.
We'll try this. This is probably decent
enough.
I've got all these damn bug bites and
I'm like so freaking paranoid that I've
got ticks on me. There's so many of them
around
I'm in Maryland. I'm on a farm, so it's
like tons of stuff. And I have like I
run as well around.
So, it sucks. You get like normal bug
bites and then it's like I don't know,
is it a
tick? Literally, like I'll go running in
the morning and I'll just be the whole
time I'm running I'll just be like
pulling bugs that are biting me off my
back.
on. I want to take a picture. I can like
freaking see. It's in like this blind
spot where I can't reach. And we'll go
back to Dev.
There's literally nothing
there. No
idea. We actually have not really had
any mice problems
surprisingly. All right, so I mean that
at least fixes it enough,
right? But we do have pip installable
package now. Let's see if uh we can
actually run
it. No config for M name
breakout really.
right
here. Yeah, we have uh we have the
default. We literally have
this this uh
default. I bet you config is not in the
files. Oops. With no build
isolation.
Could work without build isolation,
right? All
right. Upper
train.
No config.
Really? We should see stuff getting
included
Ah, packaging. No
fun. No fun at all.
no. Do we still not have the config
files in
there? No, we do. Look, cuz see we have
config files in here
now. Uh-huh.
Yeah, we got our
Upper lip popper lip
config. Yeah, this totally
now. Should be in the same directory as
well.
I actually want to specifically
know build
Smith. This guy is a
[ __ ] Cool. Thank you for screwing over
Python.
This should totally have uh that
breakout in it,
right? Huh?
Wait, this suddenly
works. Oh, wait. Then how does something
just cash weird? I guess
If this works. It does. We have bas
basic packaging done and we can do other
things which would be very nice. I got
45 minutes before dinner and I do not
want to keep doing this.
Cool. So then you can do puffer train.
Actually, I want to go let's go up a
dirt and let's see what happens.
All right, we have
experiments and then we have uh our
model file, right? So we just do
eval.
Boom. Except this model doesn't seem to
be loading correctly because it
sucks. Is that the
case? Uh
policy load state
dict cuz you've already passed it to
um you've already passed it to puffer is
the
I think we'll go look at the uh
experiment results that we've had
running after
this to ship this
Is the Python requirement greater than
or equal to 3.12 for puffer lib? It
should not
be. I think that would be too far ahead
to go,
right? What's the current Python release
versioning?
though. Technically, it should be 39 or
310. It should be what we uh
require. Possibly 310. I don't think
anyone's still on 39 so much
anymore. Yeah, 312 would be too recent
of a wreck.
work? How's this still not work?
Well, at least we can um
This stupid thing. I can tell by how
long it's
taking. It's trying to install yet
another version of Torch.
We are going to just fix this policy
loading thing real quick first.
Yes, this model is not very good
apparently. Okay.
training. Load
config. Does it load policy?
Let me see. So, load model path actually
has to do a
Okay, that has been a lot of obnoxious
packaging done.
man. Okay, let's go look at the
experiments.
We still have to write
docs. I actually got a bunch of the
stuff done today for uh packaging, but
we still have to write
doing? Okay, so time this thing
does not particularly
well and this
one does
terribly. Well, that's worth figuring
out what the heck went wrong there.
Weston. Get myself set up with
womb. Yeah, you should do
that. Just look at some of our codes. so
you don't make a mess. Just like look at
like the snake code or
something group discord
page your YouTube channel
I1 we have a discord discord.gg/puffer
GG/puffer. Got like,00 people in it or
whatever.
What extent do I think this is bad
defaults versus bad
look? It's not like we're just stuck and
not exploring hyper pram space, right?
It's
wand, but uh I mean that's kind of what
they get for naming it that,
right? It's going to be WandyB. And you
know, if they don't like that, they can
call the Wambbulance.
It's pretty funny because I've seen them
giving like given presentations where
like they clearly instructed the
presenter to like like annunciate wand
B. All
right. I think that what we have to do
here I'm a bit confused
here. All I did was got some better
default
ranges. One that's really bad is the
mazes. Can we figure out what happened
to the
mazes? Cuz they should get like way
better
perf. It's weird, you know, cuz
like it looks like it's finding good
params and then the score just sucks.
here.
Oh, okay.
Well, this will do it,
right? No, we
actually Was this a good run or
right? So, this is just deciding to not
do
Take a little look at some of our sweep
stuff to correct for this.
steps equals args of train of total time
steps. This is in the wrong spot.
This needs to
go
So, we have our new
uh we've got our new code
[ __ ] I think what I'm going to do is
I'm just going to set it so that
um Python just does no build isolation
and uh it doesn't editable like it does
no build isolation. It does break system
packages by default on our dockers cuz
this VM [ __ ] is just so
stupid. Like those are both just dumb
peps, right?
They're both just like dumb like dumb
virtualization peps.
upper
train works.
go. And we will see whether this uh this
works or not.
We will see how this
does. Hopefully should be
decent. That's just the bug. Then
um we should be able to actually get
better results out of our sweeps from
that cuz it's been pushing everything to
like min time steps or
whatever.
Oops.
Would you recommend I scrape a scrap
womb and use Neptune? You can try either
one.
I prefer Neptune personally and I think
that they both have free versions.
We are making progress on this sweep
stuff. Like I'm starting to figure out
the like the last remaining variables
that are screwing with
things. And hopefully we should really
be able to launch all the sweeps from
5:40. See if
anybody's asking for stuff in the
Discord. Actually, I I wouldn't mind
taking a look at your Sedokco code real
quick if you uh if you'd like me to. I
uh Let me go do a couple quick steps,
though. I got to get a swivel for this
chair.
Whatever is easiest. Why don't you have
your code on GitHub, man? Put your code
on
GitHub. Like, editing [ __ ] locally is
just dumb. like you're going to be fine
for like 99% of the time and then you're
eventually going to lose a file. I have
[ __ ] on
default is on GitHub then DM me the link
what are you
doing or put it in chat or whatever.
You're supposed to do
that. No.
It's crazy how much of a difference
sleep makes.
Like honestly, lately I've been starting
to suspect I don't even have like
particularly [ __ ] athletic genetics.
It's just straight up that when I was
younger, like I wasn't sleeping at all.
So, like, yeah, you're going to be near
last in everything if you're sleeping
four hours a night and everyone else is
sleeping seven or
eight. I swear I don't know how you
randomly run a six-minute
mile. Like, I'm training and I'm almost
at the point where I think I could
probably do a seven.
Like I can do I did a 630 pace 1
kilometer interval the other
day. I'm 5'9. It doesn't make that big
of a difference.
We do have the
uh the 195 bench for 12, though. I'm
starting to get my pressing strength
back at the very
least. Touch and go. 195 for 12. Not
paused, but still.
Western's
code. I got to go in like 10. I want to
take a quick
five. I've done 20 on like a plate and
change or
whatever. It's weird. Like it takes a
while to get used to training that way
though. Like I I don't even think I did
I recently did 135 for like 20 or 25,
whatever it was. Um I don't think I
could have done that when I when I hit
my like 265 single. I don't think I
could have done a plate for 20.
You have to train high reps. If you want
to be able to do high
reps, to train strength, if you want to
be
strong, I will say I'm absolutely uh
loving the the super squat back there. I
haven't used it for squatting once. I've
been just using it for push press and
it's
great. It's like very quickly just
become my favorite movement. What'd you
get done today? Uh we have a a dev build
with uh of the pit package. Um, we also
have entry points. So, you can just do
this from anywhere on your system. You
can do puffer
train and then wherever you are, it'll
just like it'll save the checkpoints
more. Buffer train.
Yep. Well, there's a default, right? The
defaults are breakout, but
like So then what I can do is puffer
eval.
Oops. And that'll just work from the pit
package. And you can actually pull files
down from Neptune or Wand as well. You
can load stuff from
there. You can run like everything from
this
Uh getting just latest is kind of hard
from uh from like
Neptune. Get
get Google deep
moon.
What? These are things I'm sure were
very funny with no sleep.
So you did multidiscreet I guess. Wait 0
to 70. Oh no I see what you did. Okay
that's fine.
jeez. Oh, David stopped
by. Wait, when did he must have stopped
by late
then? Do they have a better model than
the puffer one
yet? I don't think
so. We still We try to ship them good
models.
Wait, this
is Dude, this is this is off policy
PO. This is like not supposed to work at
When's this memory get reset? Oh, no.
Never mind. Okay, it's still on policy.
You're
fine. So, it's funny. You're doing
batch. You're doing this batched, right?
You don't have many batching at
Yeah, you're definitely going to be able
to do a heck of a lot. Like you got too
many
variables. Like if you want to make your
own if you want to make your own
training implementations, you should do
them on an existing an existing model or
I mean an existing environment. And if
you want to make your own environment,
you should use an existing training
implementation. It'll be way easier. I
mean, here like port the M to C and try
it on Puffer and see how it works.
That'll be some good engineering
experience for you as
well. You'll get to do some C. You
should get some sleep first, otherwise
you're going to make a mess of
Right. I am about to go get dinner
though. So, um I think I will be back
after dinner to look at some
experiments. I got to figure out a
couple other things I can do. I might
even start looking at like what research
I want to start working on next. Um
because I'm going crazy from doing
release stuff.
Um yeah. So, for folks
watching, thanks for stopping by. It's
been a pretty darn good stream day.
Um, all my stuff's free and open source.
So, if you want to check that out, it's
at
puffer.ai. You can help me out for free
by starting the repository. That really
helps. And if you want to get involved
with dev, like most of our top
contributors came in with no RL
background at all. So, if you know how
to program and you want to do some AI
and like do some really hardcore ultra
high performance
dev, run Discord. Also follow me on X
where I occasionally post reinforcement
learning things. Other than that, thanks
and I will be back probably after
dinner.